content/projects/Plotly_R_Surface_Plot/index.md, before:

---
title: "Surface Plots Using R and Plotly"
date: 2019-11-18T23:53:00+01:00
draft: false
summaryImage: "3DScansPlotly.png"
hideLastModified: false
type: "project"
summary: "This post shows how R and Plotly were used to create interactive 3D images of scanned objects (a semiconductor plate and a circuit board). "
summaryImage: "3DScansPlotly.png"
tags: ["R", "Plotly"]
---


<center>
### Example 1:
</center>
<center><img src="Chuck_V11.gif" alt="3D Interactive Chuck"></center>



R is widely known as a data science/statistical programming language. However with the breadth of available packages and diverse R community, I have found that R can break out of the data science box in amazingly powerful ways. 

For example, I was able to use R and [Plotly](https://plot.ly/) to create interactive 3D images of scanned objects. I had 3D scanning data from a motion system and used the R to create highly responsive 3D images that can be shared over the web!

The examples on this page are screen captures of interaction through the web. To interactive with these plots directly you can navigation to the interactive plots (which I host on GitHub) here:

[Click Here to Interact With The Plots](https://dunhampa.github.io/R_3D_Scanner_Plotting/)

<center>
### Example 2:
</center>
<center><img src="Board_V4.gif" alt="3D Interactive Board"></center>

The trick for me was getting the 3 dimensional x,y,z into a format for a surface plot to render. This required finding a new package "akima" to use an interpolation function before sending Plolty. 

The source code with this trick can be found in this GitHub Repo:
            <a href="https://github.com/dunhampa/R_3D_Scanner_Plotting" title="R 3D Scanning Plotting">
              <span class="fa-stack fa-lg aria-hidden="true"">
                <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x aria-hidden="true""></i>
                <i class="fa fa-github fa-stack-1x fa-inverse aria-hidden="true""></i>
              </span>
            </a>








# Code

The R code exert, below,  shows the prep of x,y,and z data to surface data for rendering using [Plotly](https://plot.ly/r/3d-surface-plots/).

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
  library(dplyr)
  library(akima)
  library(plotly)
  
  #Getting and scaling the 3D data
  #This a custom piece since data was 1 column stream
  #that just incremented x,y,and z information
  circuit_data<-read.csv("CircuitUniDirectionFlat.txt", header=FALSE)
  xseq<-seq(1,length(circuit_data[,1]),by=3)
  yseq<-seq(2,length(circuit_data[,1]),by=3)
  ainseq<-seq(3,length(circuit_data[,1]),by=3)
  x<-circuit_data[xseq,][1:129999]
  x<-x/50
  y<-circuit_data[yseq,][1:129999]
  y<-y/50
  z<-circuit_data[ainseq,][1:129999]
  z<-z/1
  z<-z*-1
  circuit_data<-data.frame(x,y,z)[1:127926,]
  data<-circuit_data
  
  #yop and xop determine resolution of surface plot
  # these are used as interp parameters
  xop<-as.matrix(seq(min(x), max(x), 200)) #100 here, worked well
  yop<-as.matrix(seq(min(y), max(y),200))
  
  data<-data.frame(x,y,z)
  circuitToPlot <- with(data,interp(x,y,z, yo=yop, xo=xop, duplicate="mean"))
 
  
  plot_ly(z=circuitToPlot$z, type="surface")%>% 
    layout(
      scene = list(
        zaxis = list(range = c(-50000,-20000)),
        aspectratio = list(x = 1, y = .3, z = .1)
      )
    )
  ```

Commit message:

Small wording changes on index and updated surface plot content

content/projects/Plotly_R_Surface_Plot/index.md, after:

---
title: "Surface Plots Using R and Plotly"
date: 2019-11-18T23:53:00+01:00
draft: false
summaryImage: "3DScansPlotly.png"
hideLastModified: false
type: "project"
summary: "Using R and Plotly to create surface plots that can be shared and rendered responsively in web browsers"
summaryImage: "3DScansPlotly.png"
tags: ["R", "Plotly"]
---


<center>
### Example 1:
</center>
<center><img src="Chuck_V11.gif" alt="3D Interactive Chuck"></center>



R is widely known as a data science/statistical programming language. However with the breadth of available packages and diverse R community, I have found that R can break out of the data science box in amazingly powerful ways. 

For example, I was able to use R and [Plotly](https://plot.ly/) to create interactive 3D images of scanned objects. I had 3D scanning data from a motion system and used the R to create highly responsive 3D images that can be shared over the web!

The examples on this page are screen captures of interaction through the web. To interactive with these plots directly you can navigation to the interactive plots (which I host on GitHub) here:

[Click Here to Interact With The Plots](https://dunhampa.github.io/R_3D_Scanner_Plotting/)

<center>
### Example 2:
</center>
<center><img src="Board_V4.gif" alt="3D Interactive Board"></center>

# Code

The trick for me was getting the 3 dimensional x,y,z into a format for a surface plot to render. This required finding a new package "akima" to use an interpolation function before sending Plolty. 

The source code with this trick can be found in this GitHub Repo:
            <a href="https://github.com/dunhampa/R_3D_Scanner_Plotting" title="R 3D Scanning Plotting">
              <span class="fa-stack fa-lg aria-hidden="true"">
                <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x aria-hidden="true""></i>
                <i class="fa fa-github fa-stack-1x fa-inverse aria-hidden="true""></i>
              </span>
            </a>


The R code exert, below,  shows the prep of x,y,and z data to surface data for rendering using [Plotly](https://plot.ly/r/3d-surface-plots/).

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
  library(dplyr)
  library(akima)
  library(plotly)
  
  #Getting and scaling the 3D data
  #This a custom piece since data was 1 column stream
  #that just incremented x,y,and z information
  circuit_data<-read.csv("CircuitUniDirectionFlat.txt", header=FALSE)
  xseq<-seq(1,length(circuit_data[,1]),by=3)
  yseq<-seq(2,length(circuit_data[,1]),by=3)
  ainseq<-seq(3,length(circuit_data[,1]),by=3)
  x<-circuit_data[xseq,][1:129999]
  x<-x/50
  y<-circuit_data[yseq,][1:129999]
  y<-y/50
  z<-circuit_data[ainseq,][1:129999]
  z<-z/1
  z<-z*-1
  circuit_data<-data.frame(x,y,z)[1:127926,]
  data<-circuit_data
  
  #yop and xop determine resolution of surface plot
  # these are used as interp parameters
  xop<-as.matrix(seq(min(x), max(x), 200)) #100 here, worked well
  yop<-as.matrix(seq(min(y), max(y),200))
  
  data<-data.frame(x,y,z)
  circuitToPlot <- with(data,interp(x,y,z, yo=yop, xo=xop, duplicate="mean"))
 
  
  plot_ly(z=circuitToPlot$z, type="surface")%>% 
    layout(
      scene = list(
        zaxis = list(range = c(-50000,-20000)),
        aspectratio = list(x = 1, y = .3, z = .1)
      )
    )
  ```
