content/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "About Me"
date: 2019-06-17T23:53:00+01:00
draft: true
hideLastModified: true
showInMenu: true
# no need for the "summary" parameter as it is not displayed in any previews
---

Hi, I'm Pete. I've created this blog for a place to share projects, tutorials, and notable troubleshooting journeys.  I am always interested in meeting new people with similar projects and always open to constructive feedback. Feel free to reach out.

Here are some examples of my projects and topics I am interested in:

## Art From Code
###  [SALCI](https://github.com/dunhampa/SALCI) \
  **S**ensor **A**rray **L**ight **C**ontrolled **I**nstrument:
  A networked music instrument I envisioned and developed using open source Arduino hardware/software. This instrument uses sensors to measure changes in light conditions and generates MIDI data that can be synthesized in various forms.\

###  [A Happy Little Bug](https://github.com/dunhampa/A_Happy_Little_Bug) \

Using Processing.org (Java), I enjoy building graphics, circles, colors, and animations. The best part of using a programming language for graphical work is that there is no such thing as an ugly bug. Similar to how Bob Ross makes a "happy little tree" out of a accidental brush stroke, a mistake in incrementing a loop counter can create a stacked,colorful facet, instead of an organized array of circles. Or in a Bob Ross analogy a "happy little bug"








I was comtemplating this blog for sometime but my pushed over the edge by this excellent talk: [The unreasonable effectiveness of public work - David Robinson](https://resources.rstudio.com/rstudio-conf-2019/the-unreasonable-effectiveness-of-public-work) A paraphased punchline from this talk is that information stored on your own computer is almost always less valuable than information that is openly shared.  


My hope is that a post or link here will eventually find a person that would of otherwise hit the dreaded "no results" from Google when you are looking for insight or answer on an error and problem. Truly

Commit message:

about me draft in progress

content/about/index.md, after:

---
title: "About Me"
date: 2019-06-17T23:53:00+01:00
draft: true
hideLastModified: true
showInMenu: true
# no need for the "summary" parameter as it is not displayed in any previews
---

Hi, I'm Pete. I've created this blog for a place to share projects, tutorials, and notable troubleshooting journeys.  I am always interested in meeting new people with similar projects and always open to constructive feedback. Feel free to reach out.

Here are some examples of my projects and topics I am interested in:




## Data Science
I am a outspoken R champion because the R ecosystem has enabled me to frame business problems. R also has an amazing, supportive community.  Before my life with R, there where questions and lots of data but not enough time to connect the two. I started my R journey completing [JHU Data Science Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/jhu-data-science) and I can't recommend it highly enough.  

## My Full Stack Journey 
In my career (and hobbies) I've worked across the stack but the journey is never ending.  I started my career as a data _collection_ expert specializing in the instrumentation and measurement of electrical systems. In this work I learned about a lot of cool hardware such as RF (radio frequency) satellite modems and automatic force microscopes. The stack is broad though, and I am currently focusing on IaC (Infrastucture as Code) using Terraform and others, immutable servers in the cloud (DigitalOcean, AWS), and microservices/containers(Docker).  



## Art From Code
###  [SALCI](https://github.com/dunhampa/SALCI) \
  **S**ensor **A**rray **L**ight **C**ontrolled **I**nstrument:
  A networked music instrument I envisioned and developed using open source Arduino hardware/software. This instrument uses sensors to measure changes in light conditions and generates MIDI data that can be synthesized in various forms.\

###  [A Happy Little Bug](https://github.com/dunhampa/A_Happy_Little_Bug) \
Using Processing.org (Java), I enjoy building graphics, circles, colors, and animations. The best part of using a programming language for graphical work is that there is no such thing as an ugly bug. Similar to how Bob Ross makes a "happy little tree" out of a accidental brush stroke, a mistake in incrementing a loop counter can create a stacked,colorful facet, instead of an organized array of circles. Or in a Bob Ross analogy a "happy little bug"








I was comtemplating this blog for sometime but my pushed over the edge by this excellent talk: [The unreasonable effectiveness of public work - David Robinson](https://resources.rstudio.com/rstudio-conf-2019/the-unreasonable-effectiveness-of-public-work) A paraphased punchline from this talk is that information stored on your own computer is almost always less valuable than information that is openly shared.  


My hope is that a post or link here will eventually find a person that would of otherwise hit the dreaded "no results" from Google when you are looking for insight or answer on an error and problem. Truly
